# CS_Owens_Final
Rize course Computer Systems. Final Project. Log File Analysis. 

Log file analysis is the process of auditing raw server log files to track interactions between search engine bots and a website. It is important because this process helps find technical problems and performance issues that can then be fixed. What I will actually build is a C program that counts word frequencies in text. This project benefits from systems-level optimization because performance is heavily influenced by memory allocation patterns, data structure choices, and cache efficiency. I was interested in doing this because of the tokenizing the text aspect of this project. I want to be an AI programmer in the future, and sometime with this it is important to know how to tokenize text for things like Natural Processing Languages or TF-IDF Vectorization. Last semester I worked a little bit with these things to try to create an AI chatbot for a company, so I am interested to look more into it from a system developer standpoint. 

The specific performance problem that occurs in this process is slow processing times. This happens when it has to handle large text files containing many words. As the file increases, the program has to continue tokenizing strings, searching for words that exist, and update frequency counts. This can become inefficient, especially as the scale increases. At the software level, the problem could be the use of simple data structures (in this case, arrays used for storing word counts). When looking for frequent words, it would have to search through the list all the way through to find out if the word is unique or not. Also, frequent dynamic memory allocation for storing strings can maybe have fragmentation which might slow the execution.  At the hardware level, the performance issue can show up due to cache utilization and inefficient memory access patterns. Operations that are string-heavy and pointer-based structures could have scattered memory access. This would reduce spatial locality, thus increasing cache misses. Overall, these inefficiencies can make the program performance exponentially slower as the input size continues to scale upwards. 

Because I am looking at performance speed, the primary performance metric for this project will be total execution time. This will probably be measured in milliseconds. Ideally, the main optimization goal is to have at least two-times improvement in runtime compared to the baseline test implementation (emphasizing performance on large scales mainly). A secondary goal I can have is to reduce the number of dynamic memory allocations. We are going to have a timing function (like getTime()) to measure the execution time for each run. To make the test data more reliable, we will run it a couple of times and get the average runtime. This should hopefully make it more accurate and reduce variability. To be fair, the benchmarks will also be performed on the same dataset and have consistent conditions between the baseline and optimized versions. 
